# 8. Submit To Directories

Many creators will create cards hoping that they will be accepted to the Fake Rare Directory or the Dank Directory. If you are one of these, you will want to ensure your media assets are in the correct format for approval.

By making one asset, you can submit to Fake Rares, and if not accepted, then try and see if Dank will accept.

Required specs:

* Listing Directory Image: 400×560 image or GIF\
  This is the image that will be shown in the directory. If you are making a large file for your asset, you will need to make a different display image for the directory.
* NFT Media Asset:\
  Your ASSET IMAGE can be a varying size if needed, 800×1120, 600×840, etc. Or MP4 via your JSON file that you created with EasyAsset.

## Fake Rares & Fake Commons

You can find more info about Fake Rare Submissions [here](../../chapter-2-the-rare-pepe-project/fake-rares-and-dank-rares/fake-rares-submission-rules.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
The Fake Rare Directory has recently re-opened its submissions. While this is great news for creators, as lots of artists have been waiting to submit their latest creations for a while please expect a rather long waitlist and backlog in the submission process.
{% endhint %}

The barrier of entry to Fake Rares can be higher and the waitlist longer. In the meantime you can submit your creations to the [Fake Commons](../../chapter-2-the-rare-pepe-project/fake-rares-and-dank-rares/fake-commons/) instead. More info [here](../../chapter-2-the-rare-pepe-project/fake-rares-and-dank-rares/fake-commons/#fake-commons-submission-rules).

## Dank Rares

You can find more info about Dank Rare Submissions [here](../../dank-rares/dank-rares-submission-rules.md).

### Step 1:

Go to [https://www.dankdirectory.io/](https://www.dankdirectory.io/) and click the “[Submissions & Rules](https://www.dankdirectory.io/submissions/)” button.

### Step 2:

Read the rules and fill out the form:

* Artist: Your Artist Name
* Transaction Hash: tx link showing you burned/destroyed Dank Meme Cash
* Image Link: Link to the Listing page image that is 400×560
* Email: Your contact email
* Asset Link: Link to XChain of the Token you created

{% hint style="info" %}
Note: You will need to burn a DANKMEMECASH card to be able to submit it to the Dank Directory. At the moment, this costs about USD 100 from the cheapest Dispenser. However, if you ask around, you might be able to get one for free. If not, just factor this as a promotional cost to have your work listed on the directory.
{% endhint %}

